p8105_hw1_lvr2115.md, before:

p8105_hw1_lvr2115
================
laura
2023-09-23

# Problem 1

``` r
library(moderndive)
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching core tidyverse packages ──────────────────────── tidyverse 2.0.0 ──
    ## ✔ dplyr     1.1.3     ✔ readr     2.1.4
    ## ✔ forcats   1.0.0     ✔ stringr   1.5.0
    ## ✔ ggplot2   3.4.3     ✔ tibble    3.2.1
    ## ✔ lubridate 1.9.2     ✔ tidyr     1.3.0
    ## ✔ purrr     1.0.2     
    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()
    ## ℹ Use the conflicted package (<http://conflicted.r-lib.org/>) to force all conflicts to become errors

``` r
data("early_january_weather")
str(early_january_weather)
```

    ## tibble [358 × 15] (S3: tbl_df/tbl/data.frame)
    ##  $ origin    : chr [1:358] "EWR" "EWR" "EWR" "EWR" ...
    ##  $ year      : int [1:358] 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 ...
    ##  $ month     : int [1:358] 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ...
    ##  $ day       : int [1:358] 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ...
    ##  $ hour      : int [1:358] 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ...
    ##  $ temp      : num [1:358] 39 39 39 39.9 39 ...
    ##  $ dewp      : num [1:358] 26.1 27 28 28 28 ...
    ##  $ humid     : num [1:358] 59.4 61.6 64.4 62.2 64.4 ...
    ##  $ wind_dir  : num [1:358] 270 250 240 250 260 240 240 250 260 260 ...
    ##  $ wind_speed: num [1:358] 10.36 8.06 11.51 12.66 12.66 ...
    ##  $ wind_gust : num [1:358] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA ...
    ##  $ precip    : num [1:358] 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ...
    ##  $ pressure  : num [1:358] 1012 1012 1012 1012 1012 ...
    ##  $ visib     : num [1:358] 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 ...
    ##  $ time_hour : POSIXct[1:358], format: "2013-01-01 01:00:00" "2013-01-01 02:00:00" ...

The dataset is a subset of hourly meterological data from LGA, JFK, and
EWR airports for January 2013. This dataset 358 rows and 15 columns. The
15 variables are day, dewp, hour, humid, month, origin, precip,
pressure, temp, time_hour, visib, wind_dir, wind_gust, wind_speed, year.

The mean of the temperature variable is 39.5821229.

This is a scatterplot showing the temperature at different hours during
days in early January. The color of the data point shows the humidity.
It is apparent that temperature fluctuates during the day and
temperatures increase during the second week and. third week of january
compared to the first.

``` r
ggplot(early_january_weather, aes(x = time_hour, y = temp, color = humid)) + geom_point()
```

![](p8105_hw1_lvr2115_files/figure-gfm/scatterplot-1.png)<!-- -->

``` r
ggsave('temp_plot.png', width=6, height=4,dpi=300)
```

# Problem 2

This code chunk creates a data frame comprised of a random sample of
size 10 from a standard Normal distribution, a logical vector indicating
whether elements of the sample are greater than 0, a character vector of
length 10, and a factor vector of length 10, with 3 different factor
“levels”.

## Creating new data frame

``` r
new_df = tibble(
  samp = rnorm(10, sd = 1),
  vec_logical = samp > 0,
  vec_char = c("x", "y","z","aa","bb","cc","dd","ee","ff","gg"),
  vec_factor = factor(rep(c("nvr smk", "pst smk", "cur smk"), length.out = 10))
)
```

In this next code chunk, I am trying to take the mean of each variable
in my dataframe new_df.

## Taking the means of each new variables

``` r
mean_samp = mean(pull(new_df, samp))
  mean_samp
```

    ## [1] -0.1792869

``` r
mean_log = mean(pull(new_df, vec_logical))
  mean_log
```

    ## [1] 0.3

``` r
mean_char = mean(pull(new_df, vec_char))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(new_df, vec_char)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

``` r
mean_factor = mean(pull(new_df, vec_factor))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(new_df, vec_factor)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

I was unable to take the mean of vec_char and vec_factor (returning ‘NA’
warning) because these are not numeric variables and this is not
supported.

## Converting variables from one type to another

``` r
as.numeric(pull(new_df,vec_logical))
```

    ##  [1] 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0

``` r
as.numeric(pull(new_df,vec_char))
```

    ## Warning: NAs introduced by coercion

    ##  [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA

``` r
as.numeric(pull(new_df,vec_factor))
```

    ##  [1] 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2

Applying the as.numeric function to the logical and factor variables
coerced their values into numbers corresponding to the different levels.
The logical variable values output is now ‘0’ and ‘1’, while the factor
variable values output is ‘1’, ‘2’, and ‘3’, corresponding to the 3
levels. Applying the as.numeric function to the character variable
returns `NA`, as it did when trying to take the means of this variable.
The values of this variable cannot be coerced into numereric values.
Output not shown.

Commit message:

Edited scatterplot description and added axis labels

p8105_hw1_lvr2115.md, after:

p8105_hw1_lvr2115
================
laura
2023-09-23

# Problem 1

``` r
library(moderndive)
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching core tidyverse packages ──────────────────────── tidyverse 2.0.0 ──
    ## ✔ dplyr     1.1.3     ✔ readr     2.1.4
    ## ✔ forcats   1.0.0     ✔ stringr   1.5.0
    ## ✔ ggplot2   3.4.3     ✔ tibble    3.2.1
    ## ✔ lubridate 1.9.2     ✔ tidyr     1.3.0
    ## ✔ purrr     1.0.2     
    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()
    ## ℹ Use the conflicted package (<http://conflicted.r-lib.org/>) to force all conflicts to become errors

``` r
data("early_january_weather")
str(early_january_weather)
```

    ## tibble [358 × 15] (S3: tbl_df/tbl/data.frame)
    ##  $ origin    : chr [1:358] "EWR" "EWR" "EWR" "EWR" ...
    ##  $ year      : int [1:358] 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 ...
    ##  $ month     : int [1:358] 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ...
    ##  $ day       : int [1:358] 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ...
    ##  $ hour      : int [1:358] 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ...
    ##  $ temp      : num [1:358] 39 39 39 39.9 39 ...
    ##  $ dewp      : num [1:358] 26.1 27 28 28 28 ...
    ##  $ humid     : num [1:358] 59.4 61.6 64.4 62.2 64.4 ...
    ##  $ wind_dir  : num [1:358] 270 250 240 250 260 240 240 250 260 260 ...
    ##  $ wind_speed: num [1:358] 10.36 8.06 11.51 12.66 12.66 ...
    ##  $ wind_gust : num [1:358] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA ...
    ##  $ precip    : num [1:358] 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ...
    ##  $ pressure  : num [1:358] 1012 1012 1012 1012 1012 ...
    ##  $ visib     : num [1:358] 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 ...
    ##  $ time_hour : POSIXct[1:358], format: "2013-01-01 01:00:00" "2013-01-01 02:00:00" ...

## Description of this dataset

The dataset is a subset of hourly meterological data from LGA, JFK, and
EWR airports for January 2013. This dataset 358 rows and 15 columns. The
15 variables are day, dewp, hour, humid, month, origin, precip,
pressure, temp, time_hour, visib, wind_dir, wind_gust, wind_speed, year.

The mean of the temperature variable is 39.5821229.

This scatterplot showing the temperature at different hours of the day
between January 1 and January 15. The color of the data point shows the
relative humidity recorded at the same time and day. It is apparent that
temperature fluctuates during the day, temperatures increase during the
second week and compared to the first week. Humidity levels and
temperatures are both higher on and around January 14.

``` r
ggplot(early_january_weather, aes(x = time_hour, y = temp, color = humid)) + geom_point() +
  xlab("Date and hour of recording") +ylab("Temperature in Fahrenheit")
```

![](p8105_hw1_lvr2115_files/figure-gfm/scatterplot-1.png)<!-- -->

``` r
ggsave('temp_plot.png', width=6, height=4,dpi=300)
```

# Problem 2

This code chunk creates a data frame comprised of a random sample of
size 10 from a standard Normal distribution, a logical vector indicating
whether elements of the sample are greater than 0, a character vector of
length 10, and a factor vector of length 10, with 3 different factor
“levels”.

## Creating new data frame

``` r
new_df = tibble(
  samp = rnorm(10, sd = 1),
  vec_logical = samp > 0,
  vec_char = c("x", "y","z","aa","bb","cc","dd","ee","ff","gg"),
  vec_factor = factor(rep(c("nvr smk", "pst smk", "cur smk"), length.out = 10))
)
```

In this next code chunk, I am trying to take the mean of each variable
in my dataframe new_df.

## Taking the means of each new variables

``` r
mean_samp = mean(pull(new_df, samp))
  mean_samp
```

    ## [1] -0.1290031

``` r
mean_log = mean(pull(new_df, vec_logical))
  mean_log
```

    ## [1] 0.2

``` r
mean_char = mean(pull(new_df, vec_char))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(new_df, vec_char)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

``` r
mean_factor = mean(pull(new_df, vec_factor))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(new_df, vec_factor)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

I was unable to take the mean of vec_char and vec_factor (returning ‘NA’
warning) because these are not numeric variables and this is not
supported.

## Converting variables from one type to another

``` r
as.numeric(pull(new_df,vec_logical))
```

    ##  [1] 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0

``` r
as.numeric(pull(new_df,vec_char))
```

    ## Warning: NAs introduced by coercion

    ##  [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA

``` r
as.numeric(pull(new_df,vec_factor))
```

    ##  [1] 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2

Applying the as.numeric function to the logical and factor variables
coerced their values into numbers corresponding to the different levels.
The logical variable values output is now ‘0’ and ‘1’, while the factor
variable values output is ‘1’, ‘2’, and ‘3’, corresponding to the 3
levels. Applying the as.numeric function to the character variable
returns `NA`, as it did when trying to take the means of this variable.
The values of this variable cannot be coerced into numereric values.
Output not shown.
